# Lesson 0
*A bit hectic but it’s a start!*

Our overarching goal is to learn to code and code well (hopefully).
The best way to learn is to do things and have fun, so we’re doing gamedev!
For now we’re using Unity and C# with the objective of making a rudimentary Roll-a-Ball game.
Then the aim is for you to create a simplistic original game with a bit of help wherever needed.

Some miscellaneous notes to get us on the same page:

## C# style
Consistency is important! ([Refer to the official style guide for more detail](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/fundamentals/coding-style/identifier-names))
* Use meaningful and descriptive names for variables, methods, and classes. Don't overthink it, there are better things to spend your brain time on.
* Prefer clarity over brevity (the compiler is better at optimizing than you).
* Use PascalCase for class names, method names, and constant names.
* Treat acronyms as words when capitalizing, [JsonUtility](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/JsonUtility.html) for example.

## OOP tidbits
In Unity, components are classes that inherit [MonoBehaviour](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/MonoBehaviour.html).
MonoBehaviour makes Unity's facilities available to a class.
This includes things like `Start()` and `Update()`.
Note that not every class in a Unity project needs to inherit MonoBehaviour although the vast majority of classes you write will.

### Getting references to components
Components need to reference each other SUPER often, especially as your game grows in complexity.
Unity provides a family of [GetComponent functions](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Component.html) for a bunch of situations.
There's also the [RequireComponent](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/RequireComponent.html) attribute that helps avoid setup errors and is good practice to include for dependencies in the same GameObject.

Some examples:
* The dependency is in the same GameObject.

  ```cs
  [RequireComponent(typeof(Rigidbody))]
  public class Player : MonoBehaviour
  {
      private Rigidbody rb;
  
      void Start()
      {
          // GetComponent is expensive, so call it once and save the reference
          rb = GetComponent<Rigidbody>();
      }
  }
  ```
* The dependency is in a different GameObject.

  ```cs
  public class Player : MonoBehaviour
  {
      // SerializeField makes private variables available in the inspector.
      // This variable shouldn't be public because we don't want other code to alter it unexpectedly.
      // This concept is called encapsulation.
      [SerializeField]
      private Rigidbody rb;
      // Remember to set this in the inspector!
  }
  ```

## GetComponent<>()?
OH about those funny angle brackets, those are [type parameters](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/generics/generic-type-parameters)!
The types of arguments passed into a regular function must always be compatible with the function's signature.
But oftentimes various types need to be acted on in a [generic](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/generics/generic-methods) way, like when we need to get a reference to a particular class type.
